KPIG

It is hoped that the Knebworth Parking Initiative Group (KPIG) will
spring back into life in the next month or so. The first issue that we
will tackle is the lack of parking in Pondcroft Road and Milestone Road,
which have been particularly affected by commuter and other parking
displaced from Park Lane, Lytton Fields, Deanscroft and other areas to
the west of the railway line, as well as from the St Martins Road car
park. I have received a number of communications about various traffic
issues in the village, including Gun Lane, Station Approach, Park Lane
to the west of the A1(M), as well as Pondcroft Road/Milestone Road.

'Knebworth High St.' - i.e. the shopping area at the northern end of
London Road is a particular source of concern, both because traffic can
be dangerously fast, and because congestion is so bad that ambulances
and other emergency vehicles may be held up unacceptably.

There is an unused lot in Gun Road Gardens which may be suitable as a
place where some extra parking spaces can be found. This has been
suggested by some members of the Knebworth Community Group on Facebook.
If you are a Facebook user, I urge you to join the group, as it provides
a valuable forum to discuss issues affecting the village.

Norton Green Subcommittee

The Norton Green Sub-Committee of the Planning and Environment Committee
of the Parish Council had its inaugural meeting on Independence Day, 4th
July. We had a detailed discussion about the legal ownership and status
of the common, which is a key issue.

This was a very useful forum in which the interlocking issues affecting
the Common were identified. Members of the committee are: Rosemary
Conybeare, Rosemary Pateman, Karen Robinson, James Orme-Kirby and
myself, with the Clerk of the Parish Council, Claire Graham providing
much-needed support.

The Parish Council would like to acquire title to the Common, which is
currently held by Stevenage Borough Council. Once this is achieved, it
is hoped that the management of this valuable resource, which includes a
Site of Special Scientific Interest, will be improved.

