1.  **Mr Stephen McPartland MP**
    
    I have known Steve since before I was elected to be your MP in 2010
    and am confident that he is a devoted to doing everything possible
    to improve Knebworth as place to live.

Contact Details

Please put: landline: 01438 940594, mobile: 07712176618, email:
steve@stevehemingway.com, website: www.stevehemingway.com.

1.  **Your Local Campaigner Working for You**

Prospective candidate for Knebworth Ward on North Hertfordshire District
Council  
  
Steve Hemingway will need no introduction to many of you, as a resident
of 'New' Knebworth for thirty years. Steve is closely involved in
representing the community, having served as a member of the Parish
Council since 2010, and as chair of the Parish Council's Planning
Committee since 2011.  
  
Steve is involved in a variety of local groups, such as the Knebworth
walking group and Twinning Association, and is a frequent supporter of
community activities such as the Knebworth Festival and performances by
KATS, the Knebworth Players and Community Chorus.  
  
"Knebworth is a sustainable community, and an excellent place to live,",
says Steve, "however, it needs strong representation in forums where it
is competing for resources with other communities in the District and
beyond."

1.  Development within Knebworth

There are a number of sites in the village where applications have been
received for the building of five or more houses, including the site of
the former Bulwer Lytton care home and of the hostel at 111 London Road.
House prices in Knebworth are high, reflecting the good quality of our
infrastructure and environment. I am not opposed to new developments as
long as the developers make an adequate level of contributions, either
via Section 106 payments or Community Infrastructure Levy, to offset the
additional demand on this infrastructure.

Development Around Knebworth

NHDC is in the process of developing a Local Plan which should be
published for consultation later in 2014. Eight sites on the Green Belt
around Knebworth have been identified, with a potential for a total of
around one thousand additional dwellings to be built in Knebworth
Parish. In previous local plans, these have previously all been
low-priority sites: the plan recognised the value of preserving the
Green Belt.

It is important to me that Knebworth retains its distinctive village
character. I would therefore be very sorry to see any development on the
fields between Knebworth and Stevenage, or on the field between us and
Woolmer Green. Given the current capacity of transport and other
infrastructure it is hard to see that any large-scale development would
make sense anyway.

Salt Bins

After the harsh winter of 2012/13 it became obvious that Knebworth did
not have sufficient salt bins. Following on from a proposal in the
Annual Parish Meeting, the Parish Council took the initiative to obtain
two new salt bins and alerted HCC to the disappearance of three others,
which had, somehow, over the years, gone missing.

Resurfacing of Roads

Those of you who live in Swangley's Lane, Gun Road, Gun Road Gardens,
Park Lane, Station Road and Deanscroft will have noticed resurfacing
work in your road during the autumn. These roads had been in a very bad
condition and as a result of consultation with the Parish Council the
most severely affected parts are now as good as new.

1.  Parking

I believe that it is important to support local shops by making parking
in the centre of the village as easy as possible. St Martin's Road car
park which used to be free was becoming because filled up with long-term
parking by commuters and local employees. By introducing 'Pay and
Display' parking control last summer, NHDC reduced this problem last
summer. Unfortunately the current charges are unfair to those who wish
to park briefly, e.g. to drop their children off at the school, or to
pop into the Co-op for a pint of milk. I would like to see at least
thirty minutes free parking. This would make it enormously less likely
that a flying visit to the car park would result in a hefty fine. I am
part of the campaign to persuade NHDC to allow limited free parking
there.

The Knebworth Parking Initiative Group (KPIG), which I joined in 2012,
has made significant progress in improving parking in the village. Last
year, after extensive consultation, parking restrictions were imposed in
a number of roads near to the railway station. Last year, parking
restrictions were introduced on Park Lane, Lytton Fields, Stonecroft,
Gun Lane, Deanscroft, Watton Road, Oakfields Avenue and Oakfields Road.
These stop all-day 'commuter' parking and prevent anti-social drivers
parking near junctions and in other dangerous locations.

I will continue to work as part of KPIG to improve parking in Knebworth.
I believe that the best long-term solution is to find additional parking
space in the centre of the village. Some sites have been tentatively
identified: with encouragement from us, the Redeemed Church of God are
now selling spaces in part of their car park to commuters, thereby
adding capacity to the parking immediately next to the station.

These measures are not a magic bullet, and car users will continue to
experience inconvenience in finding on-street parking in Knebworth.
However they should recognise that this is usually a small price to pay
for having the very great amenity of a railway station with fast trains
to London on our doorstep.

1.  Cricket Club

The Knebworth Park Cricket Club is one of the most successful in
Hertfordshire. For a village club it runs a huge number of teams, both
adult and junior. It currently occupies a site where is has only two
pitches, at least one fewer than it needs. An application has been made
to create a new site, also within Knebworth Park. The Park is a valuable
amenity for the village and making changes to it without proper
consultation would be a mistake. Plans for the proposal are available on
the District Council and Parish Council websites.

1.  Knebworth in the Digital Age

As a rural village, Knebworth enjoys good broadband connectivity
compared to other rural areas. However local digital engagement is
disappointingly low. The Knebworth Village Website has a useful
community directory as well as local news and Jo Simson keeps us all
informed via her weekly bulletin. However, Knebworth as a community has
an exceedingly low profile on Facebook, Twitter or Google Plus. The slow
but inexorable decline of local print media will mean that without local
engagement through digital channels, Knebworth will lose its shared
experience . I am the webmaster of the Knebworth Parish Website and
admin of its Facebook page. My email and twitter identies are at the
bottom of this leaflet.

1.  Local Shops and Car Park Charges

The local shops in Knebworth are threatened by competition from large
stores in Stevenage and Welwyn Garden City. To compete on a level
playing field they need their customers need to be able to park nearby
without excessive cost. Uncontrolled parking will result in spaces being
filled by commuters and others, but high charges, levied from the first
minute, in the car parks will also cause shops to lose business. I
strongly support fairer, lower parking charges, especially for short
stays.

1.  GP Surgery

The population of the UK is ageing, and older residents make more use of
the NHS. The current site for the GP is cramped and near the end of its
economic life. I believe that another, central and accessible site in
Knebworth should be found for the surgery and I would support a site as
long as it is well-sited and able to accommodate the needs of a
twenty-first century practice. No sites are available now, but as the
economy continues to recover it is likely that one or more sites will
come up. It is important that the planning authority is ready to play
its role when this happens.

1.  Norton Green Common

As a member of the Parish Council I have long taken an interest in
Norton Green Common. It forms part of Knebworth's sites of special
scientific interest and needs to be protected, managed and fenced. There
is an ongoing campaign to improve this important part of our rural
heritage, which I strongly support.

