**NORTH HERTFORDSHIRE DISTRICT COUNCIL – FEBRUARY UPDATE**

# Station Pub Planning Application (Ref 17/01622/1)

It has taken a long time for the Station Pub planning application to
come before the NHDC Planning Control Committee. I do not know why this
is, but often it is because negotiations on Section 106 Contributions
between the developer and the officers have been drawn out.

The application, which retains a pub but includes development of part of
the site into flats, is likely to come before the NHDC Planning Control
Committee this month, on Thursday, 15th February, 7.30pm, probably in
the Spirella Building in Letchworth. If you plan to attend, please check
on the NHDC website for confirmation that the application is on the
agenda. Objectors must register to speak and in total are allowed 5
minutes to make their points; likewise, those proposing are allowed 5
minutes. As Knebworth ward member I also am allowed 5 minutes to make
points as a representative of local people in support of the concerns,
objections and views expressed by the Parish Council, the SOSPUB
campaign group and individual residents.

After the presentations, the committee may ask questions and will then
discuss and decide whether to refuse the application, or to grant it,
possibly with conditions. If permission is granted the applicant is free
to proceed; there is no appeal, as set out under law. If permission is
refused, the applicant has up to six months to appeal to the Planning
Inspector, or can submit a new application any time, with amendments
intended to address the reasons for refusal.

Members of the Planning Control Committee are not professional planners,
they are elected councillors, and will have studied the application,
looked at the site and read the associated paperwork. Particular
attention will be given to the responses from the statutory consultees,
especially Herts Highways and Knebworth Parish Council. The Committee
rely on the report and recommendation of the NHDC planning officer, a
planning professional, for guidance on which policies are relevant and
whether they are complied with. The committee’s job is to decide whether
or not the officer has, in his professional capacity, missed any valid
planning ground (breach of policy) that may affect his recommendation.
Planning law is complex and even the officers sometimes need to call in
specialist advice.

The Committee usually accepts the officer’s recommendation, especially
if it recommends refusal. If it is to grant, the Committee needs
compelling, relevant planning reasons to reject the recommendation.
Thus, objectors have to present precise reasons which counter the
professional advice from the officer in the application of planning law
and it can be hard for someone without professional planning expertise
to convince the Committee that the officer is mistaken. Objectors often
arrange for the presentation to be made by a planning professional,
quite often a barrister. Planning decisions are not about what is
desirable, they are about what is compliant with planning law, planning
policy, and planning case law.

# Local Plan Public Examination – Knebworth Sites

The Public Examination of the Local Plan continues to take place at the
Icknield Centre, Icknield Way, Letchworth. Please see the page of the
NHDC Website for latest updates of the sessions. For Knebworth
residents, possibly the most significant date will be 26th February,
from 9am, when the site allocation around Knebworth will be examined.
Getting there early is advisable as parking is limited.

Hearings are scheduled to continue until 22nd March, after which the
Inspector, Simon Berkeley BA MA MRTPI will prepare his report to the
Secretary of State. The new Local Plan, once in place, will provide much
of the policy framework within which individual planning applications
are considered.

If you would like to discuss these or any other matters please contact
me, **Steve Hemingway**, steve@stevehemingway.com or phone 01438 940594
(please include STD code).

Or **Steve Deakin-Davies**, stevedeakindavies@gmail.com or phone 07949
435435. Or be in touch directly with your County Councillor **Richard
Thake**: richard.thake@hertfordshire.gov.uk, phone 07973 157605

Or your Member of Parliament **Stephen McPartland**:
stephen@stephenmcpartland.co.uk, Stephen McPartland MP, House of
Commons, Westminster, London, SW1A 0AA

