## What’s on at the North Herts Museum

The North Herts Museum is now partially open, with Tuesday - Saturday
10:30 - 16:30. It houses various local collections, as well as regular
exhibitions. 13 Jan - 3rd March: Louis Wain (artist) “Curious Cats”. The
museum is next to Hitchin Town Hall, in Brand Street, Hitchin. Although
its ability to stage exhibitions is somewhat hampered by the fact that
the entrance at 14-15 Brand Street has still not been brought into use,
it is open to the public. It is hoping that dispute that is preventing
the use of this entrance will soon be resolved.

## Garden Waste Bins

I have had some feedback about the new charging regime for garden waste
bins. It is important to remember that removal of household waste is a
statutory obligation for the Council, and not one that it is allowed to
charge for. Some residents have complained about the fact that they will
receive another container for their waste, the new larger sized caddy
for food waste. The alternative to this was to let householders put
their food waste in their ‘residual waste’ (i.e. purple) bins. Although
this would have saved money, it was felt that it was a worse option from
an environmental point of view and was rejected. Householders who pay
for garden waste bins may continue to use them for food waste, leaving
their new food caddies unused, however they will then have their food
waste removed only ever fortnight, rather than every week.

There was some confusion over what I meant when I said that it would be
possible to order additional brown bins. Each bin will attract the 40
pounds annual charge. The change is that up until now each householder
was allowed one brown bin without reference to the size of his or her
garden.

## Forthcoming NHDC meetings

This month, on the 21st Jan, will see the meeting of the NHDC Cabinet at
which it is expected that a revenue budget and capital spending
programme will be produced. These items will be referred to full Council
on 8 February 2018. Both these meetings are open to members of the
public. Please check the NHDC website for details of the the location as
the District Council Offices in Gernon Road are out of action during
refurbishment, which is expected to be finished before the end of the
first quarter.

## Establishment of a Council Housing Company

NHDC no longer owns any housing stock, having transferred its former
stock to North Herts Homes in 2004. However, it remains responsible for
homelessness, and has a number of housing offers responsible for
assisting homeless persons in the District. It is likely that the
Homelessness Reduction Act 2017, which comes into force in April 2018,
will increase the load on NHDC in this area.

Although homelessness in North Herts is very low (at the last count
under five families), for those affected it can be devastating. To deal
with this problem, the Council is considering establishing a Housing
Company that will own residential accommodation that will be used for
temporary accommodation. Currenly, in some cases, families end up being
housed in bed and breakfast accommodation in adjacent boroughs.

A decision on how to proceed with the Housing Company project will be
taken in a Cabinet subcommittee some time this month.

