**NORTH HERTFORDSHIRE DISTRICT COUNCIL – MARCH UPDATE**

In the penultimate meeting of NHDC for the current civic year on the 8th
Feb, the budget for 2018/19 was agreed. There are considerable increased
costs flowing through as a result of various inflationary and
contractual increases. Fortunately, the officers, working closely with
the Executive Member for Finance have managed to identify savings of
around £2.7M. This is a huge achievement when you consider that next
year the total net budgeted expenditure will be £14.6M. Of this net
expenditure, Council Tax will pay for the lion's share: £11M. The rest
comes from Business Rates (£2.6M) and New Homes Bonus (£1.3M).

The bulk of the savings for next year will come from the new Waste
Collection and Street Cleaning contract. This is around £2M per annum
cheaper than the current one with Veolia which has been running for
nearly fourteen years. The new will to produce some additional savings
in the 2019/20 civic year, when some of the initial costs fall out of
the budget.

It is an ongoing challenge to find the savings needed to replace around
£8M of central government support which was available in the recent
past. In 2010, total net spend for NHDC was running at £18M. Throughout
the long march to reduce costs, the focus for NHDC has been to protect
front-line services: those which directly affect residents of North
Herts.

The result of all this effort is that the increase in Council Tax for
next year will be £5 for a Band D property for the year, or 2.99%. This
is larger than I would perfer, but at £223.45 a year for a Band D
property I believe this represents good value. In 2019/20 the Council
will have to find additional savings because the Revenue Support Grant
(the amount received by North Herts from central government funds) will
go negative and mean that NHDC will be paying over £1M to central
government to redistribute to councils which have been judged to have
less well-heeled residents.

If you're wondering why £223 sounds low for a Council Tax bill, its
because NHDC collects the tax on behalf of Herts County Council,
Hertfordshire Police Authority and even Knebworth Parish Council. A
relatively small amount goes to fund the work of the District Council\!

Please contact your NHDC councillors if you would like to discuss these
or any other matters:

**Steve Hemingway, steve@stevehemingway.com or phone 01438 940594
(please include STD code when dialling)**

**Steve Deakin-Davies, stevedeakindavies@gmail.com or phone 07949 435435
**

Or be in touch directly with your County Councillor Richard Thake or
your Member of Parliament Stephen McPartland:

  - > Richard Thake, Herts County Council:
    > richard.thake@hertfordshire.gov.uk, phone 07973 157605

  - > Stephen McPartland MP: stephen@stephenmcpartland.co.uk, Stephen
    > McPartland MP, House of Commons, Westminster, London, SW1A 0AA

