**NORTH HERTFORDSHIRE DISTRICT COUNCIL – JANUARY UPDATE**

## **Local Plan Consultation**

The local plan consultation finished on 30 November, but the officers
still have a lot of work to collate and organize the various arguments
for and against the plan before it is submitted for examination by the
Inspector. Every single response will be uploaded to the website in
their entirety. There were around 8,400 responses to the Preferred
Options consultation in 2014, arguably less important than the latest
one, so this is likely to be quite a job in itself.

It is hoped that the plan, along with the responses, can be submitted in
March 2017. Once the inspector has had a chance to examine the documents
there will be a public examination, which will hear oral submissions
from those who have registered. Finally, the inspector will produce a
report which will recommend acceptance, rejection, or acceptance with
modifications. According to the timetable, this should happen some time
in the second half of 2017.

## **Hitchin Town Hall**

Hitchin Town Hall is fully operational after the refit. The last
Southern Rural Committee of last (calendar) year took place in the main
hall, and many more meetings will take place there while the District
Council Offices at Gernon Road are being refurbished. Access to the
North Herts Museum via the entrance at 14/15 Brand Street is not
currently possible because of a dispute with the owner of this site.

## **Proposal to designate a second AQMA in North Herts**

The Paynes Park area of Hitchin has been designated an Air Quality
Management Area. This makes it the second area in North Herts to receive
this designation, the other being the Stevenage Road area, also in
Hitchin. This means that concentrations of nitric oxide are at risk of
exceeding an annual mean of 40µg/m<sup>3</sup> and a one-hour mean
exceed 200µg/m<sup>3</sup>. An air quality monitoring station will be
installed at the site if the proposal is approved. Results of the
pollution monitoring will be published at hertsbedsair.net although the
site does not seem to have been set up yet.

I would like to take this opportunity to wish you all a Happy New Year
and my best wishes for 2017.

Please contact your NHDC councillors if you would like to discuss these
or any other matters:

**Steve Hemingway, steve@stevehemingway.com or phone 01438 940594
(please include STD code when dialling)**

**Steve Deakin-Davies, stevedeakindavies@gmail.com or phone 07949 435435
**

Or be in touch directly with your County Councillor Richard Thake or
your Member of Parliament Stephen McPartland:

  - > Richard Thake, Herts County Council:
    > richard.thake@hertfordshire.gov.uk, phone 07973 157605

  - > Stephen McPartland MP: stephen@stephenmcpartland.co.uk, Stephen
    > McPartland MP, House of Commons, Westminster, London, SW1A 0AA

