The Council meeting in July 2016 approved a version of the plan (the
'Draft Submission Plan') to go out to consultation as a 'sound and
evidenced plan'. I was not convinced that it was sound, for reasons I
explained at the meeting, particularly in relation to the provision of
transport infrastructure. However, I conceded that deficiencies in that
version were capable of being remedied, at least in theory, and
abstained. The motion to let the plan go to consultation was
overwhelmingly passed at that meeting. Respondents submitted their
representations over the course of six weeks in the final quarter of
2016.

In the last few months, officers at NHDC have been processing these
responses, linking them to policies and sites, redacting personal
information from them so they can be uploaded to the NHDC website, and
doing some basic statistical analysis on them in preparation of
submitting them, as part of the 'evidence base' for the plan to the
Planning Inspectorate. The purpose of this exercise is so that the
submission plan can be examined in public at an enquiry chaired by a
planning inspector, working on behalf of the Secretary of State.

The vote on Tuesday was to approve five recommendations:

  - note the Consultation Statement, which is the high level statistical
    summary of the responses,

  - approve the submission plan, together with a schedule of (fairly
    minor) Additional Modifications to the Secretary of State. The plan
    includes all the consultations and comprises several hundred
    thousand pages of text.

  - approve a revised timetable for the new Plan (the 'Local Development
    Scheme'),

  - grant delegated authority to the head of Planning to answer
    questions and provide any additional documention required for the
    Examination in Public,

  - authorise officers to update members regularly on the progress of
    the Plan through the examination process.

The most contentious of these is of course the second, to submit the
plan and consultation responses to the Inspector. The Council had, in
its vote of July 2016, already decided that the Plan was sound and
evidenced. I believe that it is my democratic duty to support decisions
made by the members of council at one of its meetings. Of course, if
anything had occurred since the July vote which rendered the Plan
fundamentally unsound or non-compliant, it would have been my duty to
vote against submission. For example, if new legislation had been passed
which changed the National Planning Policy Framework, it might well have
been appropriate do this. However, in my personal opinion, no such
change had occurred.

I have received more correspondence about this vote that about any other
vote I have made at NHDC over the three years I have been a member.
Residents are angry that the plan proposes to remove sites on the edge
of the village from the Green Belt. Correspondents have told me that if
I 'fail to vote against the Plan' I will face a relentless campaign to
unseat me at the next election. The problem is that I never had a chance
to 'vote against the plan'. I had a chance to vote against a procedural
motion to allow a public enquiry to consider the statements of nearly
six thousand residents of the District. As some members pointed out, the
vast majority of these submissions objected to the Plan. In other words,
they made the case that the plan was unsound.

Undemocratic though it may seem, local voters do not get to vote on
whether or not a plan is sound. This right is reserved to the Secretary
of State. The Secretary of State relies on recommendations made in a
report prepared by the Planning Inspectorate. There is some democratic
accountability in the process, but it is centred in the Palace of
Westminster, not in Letchworth Garden City. This report is produced
after a public enquiry (officially an 'Examination in Public') at which
members of the public, along with landowners, and developers, are able
to present their arguments directly to the Planning Inspector.

Many individuals, along with numerous groups that objected to the Plan
(such as 'Save Rural Knebworth') will have registered to speak. Jack
Rigg, chairman of Graveley Parish Council, in his speech to the District
Council in the 'public participation' at the beginning of our meeting on
the 10th of April, appealed to groups across the district to contact
him, to pool their resources to pay for a planning QC to make the case
on behalf of the parishes which are effected. Cllr Rigg, unlike many,
understood that the way to influence the plan at this stage is to
persuade the Inspector to recommend 'Main Modifications' to the Plan,
such as removal of the Knebworth sites. If the Inspector does this, NHDC
has no option but to incorporate them into the final adopted plan.
(Technically, NHDC could refuse to adopt these modifications, but if it
did so the most likely outcome would be for DCLG to impose 'direct rule'
and take responsibility for planning policy out of the Council's hands.)

I would like to make a comment about the consequences for North Herts,
including Knebworth, of not adopting a plan, by voting against the
motion for submission to a public enquiry. The officers in the planning
policy team would be asked to 'go back to the drawing board'. Land
owners would be invited to offer sites for development, the calculation
of Objectively Assessed Need would be repeated, the multiple stages of
consultation would be repeated. However, we would certainly miss the
March 2018 statutory deadline, and so:

  - since the Council would not have a five year land supply, developers
    across the district would be able to apply for planning permission
    on any site, whether or not they were contrary to the policies in
    the 1996 Plan. Green Belt development would be permitted, and the
    NPPF 'presumption in favour of development' would apply.

  - we would have no control over location, affordable homes, parking or
    infrastructure contributions,

  - we would lose the income from CIL and NHB:

  - in all likelihood, DCLG would take the process of producing a Plan
    out of the hands of the Council.

I do not think that the current planning process is fit for purpose.
NHDC has been working on producing a Local Plan for 21 years. No new
sites have been made available for development in the District since
1992. The process creates an illusion of democracy, but is in fact
overwhelmingly driven by centrally imposed policies, such as the NPPF.
Voters are 'consulted' on various aspects of the plan, but the
consultation asks the question 'do you think this part of the plan is
compliant with national policies?' and not 'do you like what is being
proposed here?'. Unsurprisingly, consultees are baffled, and angry, when
their carefully composed responses to the second to be ignored, because
they are answering the wrong (implicit) question.

I would like to say that I do not wish, in any way, to criticize my two
fellow Conservative NHDC members who voted against the motion. Voting
against this motion send a powerful, if anguished, signal to voters that
they do not like the Plan. I also do not like it, I just happen to
believe that allowing the Plan to go forward gives us more chances of it
being improved than not doing so.

