# December Parish News 

## Notes from Gernon Road

The budget setting process has begun. Savings will have to be made again
this year, not least because we are facing the reality of a negative
Revenue Support Grant from central government.

Work is progressing on refurbishing the North Herts Leisure Centre in
Letchworth. Much of this work was essential to keep the facility
functioning safely, but a new pool and cafe are included in the works.
This centre, which is operated by Stevenage Leisure Ltd on behalf of the
council, produces revenue for the Council, which will go up under the
agreed contractual arrangements once the work is complete.

The council's planning portal is being upgraded, to a more functional
system. This will continue to be supplied by Idox PLC., the current
operator. A number of you have noticed how unsatisfactory the current
system is. I encourage you to try the new one and send your feed back to
me or to NHDC at service@north-herts.gov.uk.

The District parking strategy consultation is getting started. Town
centre managers have been invited to give their views to the executive
member for Policy, Transport and Green Issues. The consultation is
expected to go on for several months and I will update you when I have
more details.

The project to refurbish the Council Offices will soon be underway. It
is expected that the work will start in the next month or so, and that
staff will be relocated to other offices around the area. The work is
being project managed by local firm, Wilmott Dixon. All staff will be
'decanted' from the existing District Council Offices to Town Lodge over
the course of this month. Town Lodge is also in Gernon Road, but
opposite the Broadway Cinema.

Hitchin Town Hall is fully operational after the refit. Council and
committee meetings will be relocated to the facility during the period
over which the refurbishment of the offices at Gernon Road will take
place. Access to the North Herts Museum via the entrance at 14/15 Brand
Street not current possible because of a dispute with the owner of this
site, Hitchin Town Hall Limited. It is hoped that this can be resolved
amicably, and as rapidly as possible. Discussions are taking place
between the parties.

## Odyssey Health Club Planning Application

The application to build 70 dwellings on part of the Odyssey Health
Club, which is in Knebworth Parish, was decided at the Planning Control
Committee on the 13th October. The application was granted. The report
to the Planning Control Committee conceded that a new access onto the
B197 to allow direct access to the site is inappropriate development in
the Green Belt. It even acknowledges that it "is harmful to the purposes
of the Green Belt by reason of inappropriateness". However, the report
concludes that the "very special circumstances" test required to permit
development in the Green Belt is met because a "separate and safe
vehicular access" is required for the new housing estate.

## Proposal to designate a second AQMA in North Herts.

The Paynes Park area of Hitchin has been designated an Air Quality
Management Area. This makes it the second area in North Herts to receive
this designation, the other being the Stevenage Road area, also in
Hitchin. This means that concentrations of nitric oxide are at risk of
exceeding an annual mean of 40µg/m^3 and a one-hour mean exceed
200µg/m^3. An air quality monitoring station will be installed at the
site if the proposal is approved. Results of the pollution monitoring
will be published at [hertsbedsair.net](http://www.hertsbedsair.net/)
although the site does not seem to have been set up yet.

## Timetable Consultation 

The timetable consultation for Govia Thameslink Railways is taking place
at the moment but will close at 17:00 on 8th December. This represents a
significant change to the current service as the stopping trains will
now all come from Cambridge (rather than alternately Cambridge and
Peterborough), and will to to St Pancras. Evenings and Saturday services
may be significantly reduced, although there are some suggestions that
GTR have already had second thoughts about this. There is also a
proposal that Knebworth goes back to having only one train per hour
throughout the day on Sundays.

Full details may be obtained from the Great Northern Thameslink website:
<http://www.thameslinkrailway.com/your-journey/timetable-consultation> .
The Parish Council has been active in preparing a response, which should
be available on its website.

