Newsletter for Feb 2016
=======================

Council Tax
-----------

NHDC will be working towards a final decision on Council Tax for 2016-17. A lot of work has already been carried out on this by officers of the Council, working with the Finance portfolio holder, Cllr Terry Hone. This month will see decisions the budget for next year and the capital programme, covering current and capital income and expenditure. A decision also has to be taken on how to invest the reserves.

Because local Councils are constrained on the amounts by which they can raise Council Tax, it is also necessary to agree on the Council Tax Base, which is a notional number of dwellings used to convert the total deficit into a Band D charge for the year. Increases in this ratio over specified limits give rise to a referendum, which NHDC is anxious to avoid.

As I write this a consultation on the Local Government Finance Settlement is in progress. Only when this is finished will the Revenue Support Grant from central government be known. The NHDC financial team anticipate further reductions in financial support from central government in general, and in terms of the Revenue Support Grant in particular.

Flooding
--------

December and January have seen extremely heavy rain falling, seemingly without respite. The consequences are that the gullies around the village have struggled to take the flow, and we have come perilously close to the flooding that was experienced in Orchard Way/Broom Grove a couple of years ago. Unfortunately a number of the graves in the NHDC Cemetery in Wadnall Way have been temporarily submerged. NHDC is aware of the problem although no solution has yet been proposed, as far as I am aware.

