# NORTH HERTFORDSHIRE DISTRICT COUNCIL – MARCH UPDATE

## Budget for 2016/17

At the full Council meeting on 11 Feb the Executive Member for Finance,
Terry Hone, presented his budget for the District. Central government
took a long while to decide on the financial settlement for local
councils. The figure for N. Herts is £871,000 for next year (Apr
2016-Mar 2017) and after that zero. This means that expenditure (net of
income received) for the District has to be provided 100% by local
Council Tax Payers. North Herts is one of only 15 local authorities in
England to be facing a zero revenue support grant, which reflects the
relative prosperity of the residents of North Herts.

As a result of the response to the consultation on the financial
settlement to local authorities a Transition Grant has been awarded of
£285,000 in total over fiscal years 16/17 and 17/18.

The budget results in the District component of Council Tax being set at
the equivalent of £211.96 for a Band D property, an increase of 1.9%.
The cost of services provided by N Herts to an owner of a Band D
property is therefore 58p per day, or just over £4 per week. The
increase is only 1.1p per day. The recommendation to adopt this budget
received all party support.

Of course, your total Council Tax bill includes elements to fund
services provided by the County Council, the Police and the Parish
Council, so your total Council Tax bill will be considerably greater.

## District-Wide Survey

N Herts DC wishes to measure people’s satisfaction with the Council and
its services. The N Herts District Wide Survey is a consultation
exercise that takes place every two years. The survey consists of
approximately 1000 residents from across North Hertfordshire who are
consulted via telephone interviews. These interviews are carried out by
independent consultants.

The most recent survey was carried out in October and November last
year. The report from this survey is expected to be presented to Cabinet
next month, and will be available on the website from about mid March.

As part of the District-Wide Survey new members of the Citizen’s Panel
are selected. This is a group of residents who are regularly contacted
about their views on Council performance, so that trends in satisfaction
levels can be tracked on a more frequent basis than every two years.

**Steve Hemingway, member for Knebworth Ward:**
[**steve@stevehemingway.com**](mailto:steve@stevehemingway.com) **or
phone 07712176618 or 01438940594 *(please include STD code even when
dialling from a local number)*.**

For county-council or national matters contact your relevant elected
representative directly:

  - Richard Thake, Herts County Council:
    <richard.thake@hertfordshire.gov.uk>, (01462) 434711.

  - Stephen McPartland MP: <stephen@stephenmcpartland.co.uk>, Stephen
    McPartland MP, House of Commons, Westminster, London, SW1A 0AA.

Last updated 2016-02-14 16:56:01 GMT

