## Other Matters

The budget setting process has begun. Savings will have to be made again
this year, not least because we are facing the reality of a negative
Revenue Support Grant from central government.

Work is progressing on refurbishing the North Herts Leisure Centre in
Letchworth. Much of this work was essential to keep the facility
functioning safely, but a new pool and cafe are included in the works.
This centre, which is operated by Stevenage Leisure Ltd on behalf of the
council, produces revenue for the Council, which will go up under the
agreed contractual arrangements once the work is complete.

The council's planning portal is being upgraded, to a more functional
system. This will continue to be supplied by Idox PLC., the current
operator. A number of you have noticed how unsatisfactory the current
system is. I encourage you to try the new one and send your feed back to
me or to NHDC at service@north-herts.gov.uk.

The now-adopted Grants Policy has reduced the total amount of money
available for grants from the Council, and restricted the groups which
are eligible. One of the big changes is that 'precepting bodies', such
as Parish Councils are not allowed to ask NHDC for grants. The basis for
this is that they already have the power to raise money from local
residents via Council Tax. Historically, parish councils have been a big
recipient of NHDC Grants, so even with a reduced budget there is an
opportunity for local community groups to obtain funding. The
grant-awarding committee which covers Knebworth, Codicote and other
southern parishes is Southern Rural. It still has a budget of around
Â£18,000 to spend by the end of the Civic Year, so now is the time to
write your applications ready for the next committee meeting, which is
on 1st December.

Note that there is a separate committee which overseas capital grants
for village halls, community halls and the like. This is the Community
Facilities Capital Projects Fund. The current four-year programme has
one million pounds to disburse for capital projects. Parish councils are
permitted to apply for capital funding from this fund.

The District parking strategy consultation is getting started. Town
centre managers have been invited to give their views to the executive
member for Policy, Transport and Green Issues. The consultation is
expected to go on for several months and I will update you when I have
more details.

The project to refurbish the Council Offices will soon be underway. It
is expected that the work will start in the next month or so, and that
staff will be relocated to other offices around the area. The work is
being project managed by local firm, Wilmott Dixon.

Hitchin Town Hall is fully operational after the refit. Council and
committee meetings will be relocated to the facility during the period
over which the refurbishment of the offices at Gernon Road will take
place. There continues to be a few issues with the North Herts Museum,
and 14/15 Brand Street, which links the Town Hall to the Museum. The
Executive Member for Community Engagement and Rural Affairs, Tony
Hunter, continues to work closely with council officers to find a
resolution to the ongoing dispute with Hitchin Town Hall Limited, which
owns 14/15 Brand Street.

NHDC continues to make progress with Hitchin Town Hall, which is
available for hire again. There is a dispute over the entrance to the
adjoining museum facility, but it is hoped that this will be resolved
soon.

The council is still seeking bids for refurbishment works on the offices
in Gernon Road, Letchworth. Local contractors have plenty of work and
have proved reluctant to bid. The executive member for finance is
confident that the work will be finished on time and under budget.

## Odyssey Health Club Planning Application

The application to build 70 dwellings on part of the Odyssey Health
Club, which is in Knebworth Parish, was decided at the Planning Control
Committee on the 13th October. I do not have the decision yet, but it is
likely that the Committee followed the recommendations of the officer to
grant the application for the development and for a new access onto the
B197. \[I have emailed the chair of the Planning Control Committee to
get confirmation of this - Steve.\]

## Local Plan

The public meeting ahead of the Parish Council meeting went ahead as
planned on Wednesday 12th October. The hall was full, with many of those
attending having to stand. The only occasion I can recall coming close
to this level of attendance was the meeting to discuss the NHDC
Preferred Options, in the fourth quarter of 2014.

Paul Ward delivered a summary of the Local Plan process which was widely
praised. This set the context and enabled members of the public to
understand better how they could participate effectively in the Local
Plan consultation process. Both of your District Councillors were
present, and did their best to answer the questions addressed to them.

The Parish Council, in its regular meeting after the public meeting,
decided to allocate a budget to cover the cost of a planning consultant
to help it produce its response to the Local Plan consultation which
started on the 19th October and will run until the end of November. All
residents are encouraged to read the Plan, which will be available in
the Library, and online, and to submit their representations. A new
improved online system for recording representations will be accessible
via the District Council's website, or an email to
localplan@north-herts.gov.uk, or a letter to Planning Policy, Local Plan
Consultation, North Hertfordshire District Council, PO Box 480, M33 0DE.
Please ensure that you make it very clear which section of the Plan your
representation relates to. As I have explained previously, these
representations will be collated by NHDC and submitted to the Planning
Inspector ahead of the Public Enquiry, which is likely to take place in
the second quarter of 2017.

