# April Newsletter

It used to be thought that in the Spring a young man's fancy lightly
turns to thoughts of love. It seems that in the current climate, the
thoughts of both men and women, and young and not so young, turn to
building extensions and, in some cases, the building of completely new
dwellings.

If you find yourself inclined to object to your neighbour's planning
application, this is your democratic right, and this is now very easy to
do via the [NHDC Planning
Portal](http://pa.north-herts.gov.uk/online-applications/search.do?action=simple&searchType=Application)

You should register your objection with NHDC, via the website or by
emailing [](mailto:planningpolicy@north-herts.gov.uk). Please make sure
you quote the reference number if you email your comments. If you need
to speak to the planning officer you can find this under the entry for
the application (under 'Details', then tab 'Further Information').

Note that it is the officer's job is to assess the application against
planning policy.  
In this he will have to examine it in terms of:

  - [the National Planning Policy
    Framework](http://planningguidance.communities.gov.uk/blog/policy/),

  - [Planning Practice
    Guidance](http://planningguidance.communities.gov.uk/blog/guidance/),

  - [the current North Herts Local
    Plan](http://www.north-herts.gov.uk/home/planning/planning-policy/local-plan-current-policy),
    (which including all policies which make it up, such as the Design
    Supplementary Planning Document, which has a section on the
    character of Knebworth).

Specifically, assessment of the weight of opinion locally for and
against the proposal plays no role in the officer's recommendations.

Note that an potential applicant may obtain pre-planning guidance from
the officers for the payment of a modest fee. This will help to avoid
the wasteful situation in which a resident has gone to the expense of
drawing up plans for an application that is unlikely to get permission.

The Parish Council is a 'statutory consultee' and examines all planning
applications within the parish (and on the parish boundary). If you are
an applicant, or wish to object, it is well worth going to the PC
meeting where the application is considered.

If I am persuaded that there are valid planning grounds to object to an
application that it needs to be reviewed by the NHDC Planning Control
Committee, then I will 'call it in'. I am unlikely to do this if the
Parish Council has no objections to it.

Applications which are not called in are decided by the Planning Control
officer under delegated authority.

My guess would be that there may be an argument in terms of
over-development of the plot, and in terms of the new dwelling being out
of character with the area.

I have to warn you though, that you neighbour will have paid his
architect to design a new dwelling in such a way that it complies with
relevant planning laws. The District Council has no option but to grant
an application which is compliant.

